A note on the documentation: This document is meant to be used as a github readme.md file. It is written in git markdown and is best viewed there because the links, files, and images are interactive.

# 1. Introduction of Team
+ [Felipe Bastos](https://github.com/fbastos1) - fbastos1@umbc.edu - GUI, User Experience 
+ [Rachel Backert](https://github.com/racbac) - bac2@umbc.edu - Student Manager 
+ [Travis Earley](https://github.com/travisfe) - te4@umbc.edu - Advisor Manager 
+ [Nathaniel Fuller](https://github.com/nbfuller) - fullern1@umbc.edu - Schedule, Appointment Manager 
+ [Colin Ganley](https://github.com/cganley1) - cganley1@umbc.edu - User Authentication, Database management, Documentation 
  
# 2. Project Access 
To log into the project there are two example user accounts with separate roles. The information for each is: 

User Student: 
 + Campus ID: st1234 
 + Password: password 
 
User Advisor: 
 + Username: ad1234 
 + Password: password 
 
# 3. Project Description 
The College of Natural and Mathematical Sciences (CNMS) Advising Sign-up Web Application. This is a web application to aid in the advising registration process for the CNMS. The aim is to eliminate the paper process that is currently used to handle advising scheduling.

The application follows the feature list and layout as indicated by the provided documentation. Some documentation is found [here](http://userpages.umbc.edu/~slupoli/notes/ProgLanguages/projects/CollegeWideAdvising/part2/supplements/). Specifically, we paid close attention to the feature list and workflow found [here](http://userpages.umbc.edu/~slupoli/notes/ProgLanguages/projects/CollegeWideAdvising/part2/supplements/CNMSElectronicGroupAdvisingSign-upProject.pdf). The remaining documentation is found on Blackboard. 

The original project files were created by another group within the class. They were heavily edited based on the project documentation. In short, our application gives advisors an ability to set up appointments, and students to schedule those appointments; these appointments can be viewed in a calendar format. Each user type for the application has different functionalities such as the ability to change personal preferences, set up meetings, close all meeting scheduling, and ability to search through meetings. 
 
# 4. Additions to old code
 + Added utility scripts for development workflow improvements, specifically for adding license and file headers
 + Appointments can be downloaded in a CSV file 
 + Appointments can be edited 
 + A UMBC themed CSS formatting 
 + A user specific homepage for each respective user 
 + We removed all deprecated files
 + An advisor's ability to shut off student scheduling
 
# 5. Improvements on old code
 + Reorganized the directory tree based on app's functionality; each 'module' is now located within its own directory for better file management
 + Code was uncommented, we improved the internal documentation for future development and ease of grading 
 + Data schema; we reworked the data tables into three smaller tables that improve functionality 
 + Overall layout and flow of application to improve the user experience
 + In general, we heavily edited all provided files for major functionality rewrites
  
# 6. Database Setup
The following mySql commands will create the required tables. Three tables logically divide the functionality of the application and preserve modularity. When running the commands place smart quotes around the table name. 

## Users
Our users table stores all information about a relevant user including a password hash. This table can be updated to include many users beyond the required two such as admin, staff, and faculty. 
 
` CREATE TABLE users ( 
  firstName varchar(30) NOT NULL, 
  lastName varchar(30) NOT NULL, 
  username varchar(20) NOT NULL, 
  email varchar(50) NOT NULL, 
  password varchar(128) NOT NULL, 
  userRole varchar(30) NOT NULL
  );
`

## Student Info
The students academic info table stores information about a student's academic interests and ties this data to an appointment id. It is important to note that the major is an enum type; these students are only in the CNMS majors. When selected other, a student is prompted with an error in the application.
 
` CREATE TABLE students_academic_info ( 
  username varchar(10) NOT NULL, 
  preferredName varchar(20), 
  campusID varchar(8) NOT NULL, 
  major enum('Biological Sciences B.A.','Biological Sciences B.S.','Biochemistry & Molecular Biology B.S.','Bioinformatics & Computational Biology B.S.','Biology Education B.A.','Chemistry B.A.','Chemistry B.S.','Chemistry Education B.A.','Other') NOT NULL, 
  futurePlans text, 
  advisingQuestions text, 
  appointmentID int(11) 
  ); ` 
 
## Appointment Info
The data in the appointments table is originally generated by an advisor that wants open appointments. This table is then referenced by a student who wants to schedule a specific appointment. We track the maximum number of students and the currently scheduled students as well. 
 
` CREATE TABLE appointments ( 
  appointment_ID int(10) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT PRIMARY KEY, 
  advisor_ID varchar(20) NOT NULL, 
  date date NOT NULL, 
  start_time time NOT NULL, 
  end_time time NOT NULL, 
  location varchar(20) NOT NULL, 
  max_students tinyint(3) NOT NULL, 
  curr_students tinyint(3) NOT NULL, 
  status tinyint(1) NOT NULL 
  ); ` 
  
## Seasonal Changes
This table tracks a boolean to turn on and off seasonal advising. This table can be expanded to include other application wide preferences.

`CREATE TABLE offseason (
 index int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT, 
 closed tinyint(4) NOT NULL DEFAULT '0' COMMENT '0 = Open 1 =Closed', 
 PRIMARY KEY (index) 
 ); `
 
### 7. Languages Used 
The application uses a standard web stack: HTML, CSS, PHP, and mySQL. All new code is original to the development team and all provided code was writted by another group within the class. We used no libraries and no JavaScript.
 
### 8. Slick Sheet 
 
Please see [Google Drive](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1W0aIoW7XkdZYBNf-CQQ7r1iyJD0bYwf512aDNo5ym-E/edit?usp=sharing) 
 
### 9. Support Videos and Other Documentation
 
A link will be provided [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cmw2qyPZXAs&). 
 
The provided documentation from the original developers is deprecated, however a link is provided [here](https://swe.umbc.edu/~cganley1/cs331-proj2/Documentation/original_documentation.txt).  
